<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_brn_l3q_5qb">
    <title>Journeys</title>
    <shortdesc>Every migration is a journey.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>When I was a young man – a while back – I clung to the belief that "truth" somehow
            existed on the other side of my working assumptions, delusions, metaphors, and dogmas.
            Not so sure now. I find it more practical now to focus on the quality of my life
            metaphors and not on their deconstruction. The metaphor that "life is a journey" is
            certainly a high-quality life metaphor and directly relevant to considering your path
            toward or away from DITA.</p>
        <p/>
        <section id="section_znx_ckq_5qb">
            <title>Heroic journeys</title>
            <p>Oh yes – we have been exposed so many instances of heroic journeys that we may assume
                that they are the default model for setting a new direction. </p>
            <ul id="ul_y31_5kq_5qb">
                <li>
                    <p>Homer's <i>Iliad</i> and <i>Odyssey</i>: Odysseus abandons home and family to
                        join the expedition to Troy. He then abandons the Greek army and eventually
                        all his crew to journey home to Ithaca.   </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Hebrew Testament <i>Exodus</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Boccaccio <i>The DeCameron</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Geoffrey Chaucer's <i>Canterbury Tales</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Cervantes Don Quixote</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Charlotte Brontë's <i>Jane Eyre</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Mark Twain, <i>Huck Finn</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>J.R.R. Tolkein's <i>Fellowship of the Ring</i>: </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>George Lucas' <i>Star Wars: A New Hope</i>:  Luke </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Joseph Campbell in <i>Hero with a Thousand Faces</i> suggests that many of these
                journeys are so similar in narrative shape that they are really variations of one
                archetypal story. </p>
            <p>A common thread in these heroic journeys is that our heroines and heroes cannot turn
                back or suspend the journey. To describe this sense of total commitment, John
                Fitzpatrick Kennedy used the metaphor of throwing one's school uniform cap over a
                high wall. If you didn't scale the wall, you were not admitted back to school. </p>
            <p>Is a migration to DITA like one of these heroic journeys? Does it require some heroic
                level of commitment and detachment from home base?</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_nqs_dkq_5qb">
            <title>Pragmatic journeys</title>
            <p>To my knowledge, no one has penned a heroic journey toward the goal of reducing the
                number of Customer Support calls, or increasing content reuse to reduce localization
                costs, or improving customer experience through consistent content organization.
                Sigh. I do wish that it were so, but what we're paid to do ain't heroic. It's
                business. </p>
            <p>It's good business to be skeptical about anything grandiose with DITA – benefits,
                costs, disruption, training, consulting, or technologies. It's pragmatic to do some
                weekend busking before you quit your day job to play music professionally. It's
                pragmatic to go on some road trips to a region before you sell your house. It's
                pragmatic to plan some inexpensive day trips before making any commitments to DITA.  </p>
            <ul id="ul_bxh_lvq_5qb">
                <li>
                    <p>Identify other DITA companies in your area and invite some of their pubs
                        people to a free lunch. Get them talking. Ply them with the appropriate
                        refreshments. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Download, evaluate, and modify collections of open-source DITA sources. See
                            <xref href="https://github.com/orgs/dita/repositories" format="html"
                            scope="external"/> or <xref
                            href="https://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita-adoption/ditaSourceSets"
                            format="html" scope="external">Open Source DITA Collections</xref>.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Talk to reps from or users of competitive solutions to DITA such as MadCap
                        Flare, Paligo, Microsoft Office, Read the Docs, GitHub, or Atlassian
                        Confluence. Transform all the criticisms and concerns into a list of issues
                        that <i>you</i> should research, test, and resolve <i>to your own
                            satisfaction</i>. Get ahead of the issues that someone else will
                        certainly raise if you choose to move ahead with DITA. The Dodgers pitcher
                        Preacher Roe advised young ball players to be diligent in preparing for
                        every game with the quip, "Sometimes you eat the bear and sometimes the bear
                        eats you." You can never be 100% certain how a DITA migration will go, but
                        it certainly helps to talk to people who have walked the same woods you plan
                        to walk or want to scare you away from entering those woods entirely. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Research conference presentations (use cases) about previous DITA migrations
                        – successful and unsuccessful. Reviewing those 20-30 slides on "lessons
                        learned" could easily save you months or years of avoidable pain. I have
                        found that presenters who are mature enough to tell the world what they done
                        right and done wrong in a migration are typically willing to get on ZOOM
                        call with your team do some follow-up. Assume that people are generous and
                        gracious in their wisdom. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Join DITA user groups and user forums.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p/>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p/>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p/>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p/>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Be that pragmatic heroine or hero. Do those day trips before road trips before
                cross-country relocation. </p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
