<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_dsg_1zx_knb">
    <title>Tale of Two DITAs</title>
    <body>
        <p>
            <pre id="pre_nl3_n1f_2qb">JoAnn T, Hackos. 
Content Management for Dynamic Web Delivery
Wiley
2001 New York

P. 124f
An Information Model is an organizational framework that you use to categorize your information resources. . . . An Information Model might encompass the inormation resources of one part of an organization. 

P 185
People prefer to read technical information in small, self-contained chunks, called modules. Modules are self-contained units of information that a customer can understand by themsleves, without reference to other information. A modular design accommodates those who want to move quickly to a topic they need and easily find related topics.

P 194f
Embodied in the architectures
These principles [topic orientation, information typing, specialization, inheritable processes] are embodied in two architectures.
Information architecture
The information architecture desires what a topic is and what the three core information types are (concept, procedure, and reference).  . . . 
Specialization architecture
The specialization architecture describes how new information types of topic are derived from more general types of a topic, and how specialization-aware processes can access topics at whatever level of specialization they require. 

P. 200
The content units provide a standard structure inside each information type. . . . The user’s task of finding discrete pieces of information is still enhanced by the way the content units are organized and labeled. </pre>
        </p>
        <p>
            <pre id="pre_avf_l1f_2qb">Don Day, Erik Hennum, John Hunt, Michael Priestley, David Schell

An XML Architecure for Technical Documentation: The Darwin Information Typing Architecture

Retrieved on 10-15-2020 from . . . 

Abstract
DITA is an architecture fo creating topic-oriented, Information-typed content that can be reused and single-sorted in a variety of ways. It is also an architecture for creating new information types and describing new information domains, allowing groups to create very specific, targeted documentation type definitions using a process called specialization, while at the same time reusing common output transforms and design rules. 

Specialization   . . . applies the well-established principles of inheritance and polymorphism from object-oriented design and applies them to the world of information design. This lets you create new deigns by specializing existing design. At the end of it, you get a customized solution that is still compatible with the existing infrastructure. 

Roles and responsibilities include - type architect, topic writer, information architect, build developer, and information designer.

SJD: Relatively high table stakes to do the OOTB work. Extending or specializing adds more overhead. 
SJD: This investment was still significantly less expensive than continuing to work on DocBook. BUT — is specialized DITA that much more powerful than OOTB DITA. 
</pre>
        </p>
        <p></p>
        <codeblock>
            <coderef href="txt_tale2ditas.txt"/>
        </codeblock>
    </body>
</topic>
